---
title: Block chain related requests
weight: 400
---

 
# Block chain related requests 
NEM builds a block chain which contains every bit of information needed. Subsequent blocks in the block chain have increasing heights that differ by one. Each block can contain transactions. Transactions build the basis of all account activity. It is therefore important to understand the concept and the structures of blocks and transactions.

 
Blocks are generated by accounts. If an account generates a block and the block gets included in the block chain, the generating account, called the harvester, gets all the transaction fees for transactions that are included in the block. A harvester will therefore usually include as many transactions as possible.

 
Transactions reflect all account activities. In order for a client to have an up to date balance for every account it is crucial to know about every transaction that occurred and therefore the client must have knowledge about every single block in the chain (one says: the client must be synchronized with the block chain).

 
Whenever timestamps are used, the time reflects the network time. NEM has a time synchronization mechanism which lets all node agree on how many seconds since the nemesis have elapsed. This common time is called network time.

 
The following chapters will first introduce the fields used in the block and transaction structure and then explain how a client can request parts of the block chain.

 
Blocks are transferred using a JSON Block object. Appendix A: Block has more information and an example JSON Block object. The following fields are in the structure: 

 

| Parameter | Description |
|------|------|
|  timeStamp   |  The network time when the block was created.   |
|  signature   |  The signature of the block. All blocks in the chain are signed by the harvesters. This way any node can check if the block has been altered by some evil entity.   |
|  prevBlockHash   |  The sha3-256 hash of the previous block as hexadecimal string.   |
|  type   |  The block type. There are currently two block types used: -1:  Nemesis block type. This block type appears only once in the chain.1:  Regular block type. All blocks with height &gt; 1 have this type.   |
|  transactions   |  The array of transactions. See Appendix A: Transaction for more details. A block can contain up to 120 transactions.    |
|  version   |  The block version. The following versions are supported: 0x68 &lt;&lt; 24 + 1 (1744830465 as 4 byte integer): the main network version 0x98 &lt;&lt; 24 + 1 (-1744830463 as 4 byte integer): the test network version   |
|  signer   |  The public key of the harvester of the block as hexadecimal string.   |
|  height   |  The height of the block. Each block has a unique height. Subsequent blocks differ in height by 1.   |

 
Transactions were already discussed in chapter 2 Account related requests. See also Appendix A: Transaction for an example JSON transaction object. 

 
